Hello my name is stuart betterage I'm a chef
instructor at george brown college and what we're
going to do now is sort of show you how to set up
your station as you come into your classes and go
through sort of the basic knives and equipment
that you'll require first thing we always want
to do is sanitize that station down so got the
sanitizer here spray that down get some paper
towel and you really want to vigorously give
us a good wipe down this will kill any bacteria
that might be on there so before we even start
getting ready to cut any type of preparation we're
starting with a clean and sanitized workstation
just going to get a little mat this is a plastic
mat sometimes referred to as bar matting as
well, actually you might see it in the industry
you can put glasses on there, so it is not slipping
and then I'm going to get my cutting board
and I put my cutting board I always want to check
that it's flat sometimes as the cutting boards get
older they sort of bevel a little bit as well so
you want to make sure you've got the flattest side
that will go onto that mat and this stops any
type of movement a lot of times in the industry
or even at college you're not going to be on
a wooden board you'll actually be on stainless
steel that stainless steel can make it slip
so you want to make sure that it is very very
secure, also in an industry what you will see
is different color cutting boards these are
all used for different applications brown
is used for cooked meat, red this one here
is used for raw meat, blue raw raw fish and
seafood, green vegetable and fruit preparation
yellow is for raw poultry and you can
also get the white one which we got here
is used for bakery and dairy product these
will be used to avoid cross-contamination
so you will never use a red board like this
for any other application apart from raw meats